README.md, before:

# cadastro-de-pessoa

> There you are, your own number on your very own door. And behind that door,
> your very own office! Welcome to the team, DZ-015

> - Mr. Warrenn (Brazil 1985)

An implementation of the validation formula for
cpf (Cadastro de Pessoa Física) and cnpj (Cadastro Nacional de Pessoa Jurídica),
the unique codes for people and companies in Brazil.

# Usage

[![Clojars Project] (https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/cadastro-de-pessoa.svg)]
(https://clojars.org/cadastro-de-pessoa)

Requires clojure 1.7.0 because of reader conditionals.
Works in both clojure and clojurescript.

```clojure
(ns example.core
  (:require [cadastro-de-pessoa.cpf  :as cpf]
            [cadastro-de-pessoa.cnpj :as cnpj]))
```

cadastro-de-pessoa defines the records CPF and CNPJ with corresponding:

* constructors (`cpf/cpf` and `cnpj/cnpj`)
* and literals (`#br/cpf "112.915.787-30"` and `#br/cnpj "63.883.794/0001-07"`)

The constructors will throw an exception when
given an invalid cpf or cnpj as input.

### API

Validate using the formula

```clojure
(cpf/valid? [2 2 1 8 3 5 1 3 1 5 2])
(cnpj/valid? "27.865.757/0001-02")
```

Check type

```clojure
(cpf/cpf? #br/cpf "112.915.787-30") ;=> true
(cnpj/cnpj? #br/cpf "112.915.787-30") ;=> false
```

Check formatting

```clojure
(cpf/formatted? "221.83.51.31.52") ;=> false
(cnpj/formatted? "27.865.757/0001-02") ;=> true
```

Format a cpf or cnpj correctly

```clojure
(cpf/format [2 2 1 8 3 5 1 3 1 5 2]) ;=> "221.835.131-52"
(cnpj/format "27865xxx757xxx000xxx102") ;=> "27.865.757/0001-02"
```

Generate a random, valid cpf or cnpj

```clojure
(cpf/gen) ;=> #br/cpf "343.696.318-66"

(cnpj/gen)   ;=> #br/cnpj "02.583.753/5448-95"
(cnpj/gen 1) ;=> #br/cnpj "24.275.606/0001-06"

```

```clojure
cpf/length  ;=> 11
cnpj/length ;=> 14

```

## License

Copyright © 2016 Aleksander Madland Stapnes

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Simplify
By ripping out all the stuff about literals and types.
This is just helpers for validation.
Making literals is nice for sending stuff over the wire, but complicated
in clojurescript and out of scope for this lib.

README.md, after:

# cadastro-de-pessoa

> There you are, your own number on your very own door. And behind that door,
> your very own office! Welcome to the team, DZ-015

> - Mr. Warrenn (Brazil 1985)

An implementation of the validation formula for
cpf (Cadastro de Pessoa Física) and cnpj (Cadastro Nacional de Pessoa Jurídica),
the unique codes for people and companies in Brazil.

# Usage

Requires clojure 1.7.0 because of reader conditionals.
Works in both clojure and clojurescript.

#### Dependency
[![Clojars Project] (https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/cadastro-de-pessoa.svg)]
(https://clojars.org/cadastro-de-pessoa)

`[cadastro-de-pessoa "0.4.0"]`

#### Namespace declaration

```clojure
(ns example.core
  (:require
   [cadastro-de-pessoa.cpf  :as cpf]
   [cadastro-de-pessoa.cnpj :as cnpj]))
```

### API

Functions that take a cpf/cnpj accepts either a sequence of digits or a string, while functions that return a cpf/cnpf return it as a formatted string.

Validate using the formula

```clojure
(cpf/valid? [2 2 1 8 3 5 1 3 1 5 2])
(cnpj/valid? "27.865.757/0001-02")
```

Check formatting

```clojure
(cpf/formatted? "221.83.51.31.52") ;=> false
(cnpj/formatted? "27.865.757/0001-02") ;=> true
```

Format a cpf or cnpj correctly

```clojure
(cpf/format [2 2 1 8 3 5 1 3 1 5 2]) ;=> "221.835.131-52"
(cnpj/format "27865xxx757xxx000xxx102") ;=> "27.865.757/0001-02"
```

Generate a random, valid cpf or cnpj

```clojure
(cpf/gen) ;=> "343.696.318-66"

(cnpj/gen)   ;=> "02.583.753/5448-95"
(cnpj/gen 1) ;=> "24.275.606/0001-06"

```

```clojure
cpf/length  ;=> 11
cnpj/length ;=> 14

```

## License

Copyright © 2016 Aleksander Madland Stapnes

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
